[Music]
[Applause]
jamun
Milan Madar
[Music]
[Applause]
good afternoon
everybody excellencies and ladies and
gentlemen thank you for being here
good afternoon SRU and good afternoon to
your excellencies and distinguished
guests and to uh all the meditators who
are watching on the internet right now
um I'm so grateful to be here and uh and
it's such a privilege really to be here
my name is Maxwell Kennedy and um I've
been I learned how to meditate from srw
a few years ago so we're here at the
United Nations and there are four maybe
40 or 60 ambassadors here and 70
different countries and 7,000 people and
we're here to talk about sustainable
development so why did you start with a
chant the chant is an
invocation an invocation means
uh to perform different types of
activities we need to have our energies
in different ways
otherwise most people have become
competent in one way or the other but if
you ask them to do something totally
different they will find themselves
totally at loss this is simply because
their energies get directed in one way
only an invocation means you kind of
make yourself malleable in such a way
that for every different type of action
you need your energies in different
parts of your system and you are able to
graduate that calibrate that in such a
way to perform that specific activity so
when I sit here what we need to do is
different from what I was doing when I
was walking down here so this is just
calibration using sounds if we have to
know the meaning it's uh talking about
how birth is sweetness but death is
compassion it's a relief we may think
death is a terrible thing but uh aren't
we glad that someday we will die suppose
we could not die that would be terrible
isn't it suppose we can't die at
all and above all it is talking about
yoga in the
sense the Chan is describing yoga as a
way of transcending time when we say
transcending
time right now we have a sense of time
only because we are so identified with
our physical nature suppose we did not
have a body we would would not have any
any sense of time our body is keeping
time everything that is time is cyclical
but yoga is a dimension which wants to
transcend which helps you to transcend
the cycles and make a journey Beyond
cyclical nature of life which is the
nature of physical
existence thank you um I had a teacher
at Harvard who was a medical doctor and
he told me a story that uh when he was a
young doctor he went down to Mississippi
and he saw children there in the United
States this is in the uh mid 1960s who
were starving and um after that trip he
went to Washington DC and he had uh he
tried to meet a group of senators and he
went to one after the other and none of
them would talk to him and on Sunday
afternoon he got my father's phone
number at home my father is Senator
Robert F Kennedy and my sister Carrie
who runs the Robert F Kennedy Memorial
he's here right now and my wife Vicki so
but he got my dad's number and he called
and uh and it was Sunday my dad's with
the children and and and he said to him
uh well all right why don't you come
over and we'll talk and um after they
spoke my dad went to Mississippi to
where this uh doctor had gone and when
he came back he wrote this uh he he said
these words um and there are
others on the back roads of Mississippi
where thousands of children slowly
starve their lives away their minds
damaged Beyond repair by the age of four
or five in the camps of the migrant
workers a half million Nomads virtually
unprotected by collective bargaining or
Social Security minimum wage or
workman's
compensation exposed to the cais of fate
and the cruelty of their fellow man
alike and on Indian reservations where
the unemployment rate is 80% and where
suicide is not a philosopher's question
but the leading cause of death among
young people
so after that trip my uh father went
back to the Senate and he worked with a
group of others and they they created
the first food stamps program in the
United States and that is kind of the
development model that I'm used to so
when I look at the sustainable
development goals of the United Nations
my immediate reaction is to think are
the Addis Ababa Accords going to fund
this or
not but you have a different approach
can you talk about yoga in that
context so when we say sustainable
development goals we are talking about
human well-being addressing human
well-being as 17 different issues which
concerns poverty nourishment Health
Women's issues environment these kind of
things essentially we're talking about
human
well-being how can you transform the
world without transforming individual
human beings this is the effort that's
going on in the world for a long time we
want to transform the world but we are
not aiming at individual human beings
the world is just a word it is just you
and me if there is no transformation in
you and me if there is no change in the
way we perceive experience and Fe think
feel and act in this world how can you
change the world so we can pump in money
we can have have projects they will all
go up and go down but only if we
transform individual human beings on a
large scale only then there will be true
transformation this is why yoga becomes
a significant thing today the United
Nations taking this taking up this
International yoga day is a very
important step I would say it's a
revolutionary approach because without
transforming individual human beings you
cannot really transform the world
because there is no such thing yes in
reality in reality there's just you me
and someone else if all of us Chang the
world has changed if we refuse to change
we will be only talking about it I've
been to any number of International
Peace conferences and everybody's
talking about world peace in one of
these conferences where there were 17 uh
Noble laurates I asked them a simple
question is it is it true that all of
you are truly peaceful human beings can
you put your hand on your heart and say
I am peaceful they admitted no sadguru
we don't know how to be peaceful but we
want the world peaceful how is that
possible what what you see as the world
is just a larger manifestation of who we
are sguru you can see all around the
world in Brazil in the United States in
La where I live people are doing yoga
and when we're doing it we're I'm
stretching out my body and trying to
control my breathing can can you explain
what yoga really is and how that can
help attain the
sdgs so this fundamental human
longing for health for well-being for
fulfillment of
life when you find a logically correct
and scientifically a stainable way then
we say this is
Yoga Yoga means in search in pursuit of
human well-being we've been doing all
kinds of things we've been looking up
for a long time which has led to
humanity being divided in the name of
religions casts Creeds in so many
different ways now in the last 50 years
I would say we are looking out
seriously and we are ripping the planet
apart all the environmental degradation
that we are talking about is just in
pursuit of human
well-being in the last 100 years
definitely
we are the most comfortable generation
ever but we cannot say we are well
because we are not really well people
are not happy people are not peaceful
that is not happening because we have
not addressed the inner nature so when
it when you address it in a scientific
manner rather than by belief by
Philosophy by ideologies you address
human well-being in a scientific way
this is yoga the word yoga literally
means Union when we say Union what we're
talking about is we talking
about a scientific way of
obliterating your the boundaries of your
individuality when I say a scientific
way of obliterating the boundaries of
your individual nature what this means
is right now as we sit here this is me
that is you distinctly clear but we're
breathing the same air we we are a
product of the same Earth what you call
as myself is just a popup on this planet
and it'll pop out but in this little bit
of time we have divided this in such a
way that we can't meet yoga means you
obliterate this individual boundaries
not intellectually not by belief not by
ideology but as a living
experience we we launched uh I mean this
was there on the video we launched a
very large scale environment project in
Southern India the fundamental for this
came from this this happened to me when
I was in the university and recently
about 8 years ago when I when I happened
to be in my hometown and after very long
time one of my English teachers came up
to me and said now I understand why you
would not let me teach Robert Frost I
said Ma'am why would I not let you teach
Robert Frost I like Robert Frost she
said don't you remember you didn't
didn't let me teach Frost then I
remembered she came one day till then we
were reading only English poets she came
and introduced the American poet and she
said Robert Frost such a great man and
then she started off WS are LLY darken
deep I said stop I said a man who calls
a tree a wood I don't want to listen to
this guy
she she said no no this is a very great
poet I said I don't care how great he is
he called tree a
wood I don't want to listen to
him then when we wanted to start this
process in Southern India when we found
that Rivers were going dry and the
groundwater was sinking very
rapidly when I decided we will plant 114
million trees in Tamil Nadu the simple
thing that we did was I took thousands
of people made them sit in the trees and
we set up a yogic process with which
they experienced that what they are
breathing out the trees are inhaling
what the trees are exhaling they are
inhaling and they realize one half of
their lungs is hanging out there once
they realize this there is no stopping
even today millions of trees are being
planted on a yearly basis all done by
Common People simply because we brought
this yogic experience to them that they
truly realized that one half of their
breathing apparatus is actually out
there not here so so bringing this
experience into people that what you
think as myself is not within the
boundaries of your physical nature it
goes well beyond that if this becomes a
living reality then fulfilling these
goals that United Nations has for the
world is becomes much more possible than
the way it is right now where we are
trying to push in one way but a whole
lot of people are pushing in the
opposite direction because they don't
even see as
their thank you s Guru I I wanted to uh
point out this incredible thing about
the tree planting project is that sguru
insisted that the trees be planted on
small plots of land less than half an
acre and half of the trees are fruit
trees and then half of them can be used
for firewood so that the people who live
on these lands are benefited from them
they take care of the trees and those
trees actually really grow and
um one of the the things that that's
really working on is uh is poverty and
when I look at the world today and I see
especially in the United States this
incredible gap between people who have
capital and people who don't and uh it's
a it's a very disturbing sign to me um
the this the gap between rich and poor
can you talk a little bit about how yoga
would address that in terms of of
sustainable
development so we must understand this
that we have chosen econom an economic
model which is all about everybody for
himself or herself there is no larger
commitment to humanity as such because
that is market economy everybody does
according to their own capabilities and
skills and grab what they can grab it's
literally uh shoot and Scoot economy but
we have gone for this simply
because the socialistic communistic
ideas have unfortunately failed not
necessarily because they're bad because
human beings are not ready for it yet
that is poor people who had nothing
wanted to share the rich never wanted to
share so it became a joke in the world
if the rich had to if Rich had the
Consciousness to share communism would
have been a great idea but the poor want
to share rich don't want to share so
that is the same situation here and this
is the same situation building up
everywhere else in the world is is the
best way to run the world no but do we
have a better idea no so because right
now we are in that place so the only
thing that we can truly do
is that we bring what is this what we
are referring to as yoga as a living
experience yoga does not mean twisting
your body yoga does not mean standing on
your head yoga does not mean holding
your breath yoga means in some way you
have transcended the limitations of your
physical nature you are beginning to
experience life as a larger possibility
not just this physical form that you are
once this becomes a living experience
sharing and living together will become
a common experience everywhere does it
mean we going to start communes and
everybody will live together no we can
run businesses in a more inclusive way
we can create a more inclusive economic
model and this need not be done by
government policy this can be done by
private individuals because there are
companies which are almost as large as
Nations today there are companies which
budgets which are bigger than Nations so
it is very much possible that business
can be run in a more inclusive way right
now we are thinking only of profit our
idea of profit is very shortterm kind of
idea if you really want to run your
company if you're thinking in terms of
your company prospering in the next 100
200 500 years continuously then it's
very important that you make your
customer your partner that you make
everybody else in the society your
partner whatever you're manufacturing or
whatever you're selling or whatever the
business sees whether you're selling a
safety pin or a computer or a spacecraft
essentially the business is about human
well-being
if this is this comes into the
consciousness of every business person
if this comes into the consciousness of
building every business that essentially
this is about human well-being we do it
in so many ways but fundamentally it's
about that if this awareness and
Consciousness is instilled in the
businesses on the planet then you can
find the capitalistic way of living need
not mean disparity can mean well-being
to
everybody so Guru I I read the other day
that um that for every dollar in
government investment um that uh in
developing countries that there's $7 now
in private investment
so how do we use yoga to yoke in the uh
the private corporations that are
looking just at their bottom line to end
up really having development that's fair
and
just in the last 20 years uh I have
largely focused on the Business Leaders
because there was a time a few hundred
years ago where the most influential
leadership on the planet was religious
leadership later on when the military
machines built up in a big way the
military leaders dominated the world in
the last 100 years democratically
elected leaders have become the most
dominant force in the next 15 to 25
years you will see the Business Leaders
will be the most most important or
influential leadership on the
planet the good thing about business is
that a businessman is willing to make a
deal if the deal is good no matter who
you
are I'm saying the old Prejudice of I
cannot make a deal with somebody is
going away and they're willing to make a
deal now anything is sustainable only if
it is beneficial to both the
parties nothing can be sustained either
in the marketplace or in marriage unless
it's beneficial to both the parties only
when it's truly beneficial to both the
parties this can be sustained this is
slowly sinking into the business
leadership I have seen in the last 20
years prominent Business Leaders their
way of thinking is very very different
than what it was my Essential work has
been to move individual leaders from
their personal Ambitions to a larger
Vision because a larger Vision means
then the business is sustainable for a
long period of time if it's just your
personal ambition the world will work
against you if you have a larger Vision
the world will work with you this is the
big difference so this is something that
is slowly sinking in you will see if you
see annual meetings of uh major
businesses what they're talking if you
look at the economic Forum if you look
at various economic uh you know
assemblies on the planet you will see
they're all beginning to talk about a
larger Vision how to make a difference
rather than how to make a profit this is
become the language of the business
these days it still has to manifest in a
big way but at least the language has
changed from profit to making a
difference thank you s Guru when you
look at societies all across the world
there there's a huge gap between what's
available to women and what's available
to men
the sustainable development goals
address this how what's the role of
gender equality in
yoga see yoga means uh transcending your
physical nature on one
level if you transcend your physical
nature where is the question of being a
male or a
female you being a male or a female is
relevant only in a few spaces in your
life in bathrooms and
bedrooms rest of the places I don't see
why you should recognize somebody as a
man or a woman why are we identifying
people with reproductory organs if you
must use a body part at least use the
brain I think a small gender difference
that is there between us to fulfill a
certain aspect of our life is being
stretched too far I think this is from
another period where it was not possible
for a woman to participate because of
variety of physical situations in the
world and that is largely leveled today
in most parts of the world and it's
rapidly changing everywhere I would say
uh I think a more active effort is
needed at least by law in most Nations
it is 100% equal by practice there is
still
discrepancies which has to be worked at
I feel it's a generational Thing Once
the older generation moves out the
younger generation is not looking at it
that way anymore at least I see that in
all the Asian countries it is only
people Beyond 60 years of age who think
on in this mode the younger people are
not thinking that way
anymore so Guru I'm just going to ask
you one more question because I I want
to save time for the audience um who've
been uh waiting to talk to you and um I
can you talk tell about how you conceive
the world in 30
years what I see is uh for the first
time for the very first time in the
history of
humanity human intellect is spocking
like never before more people on the
planet today can think for themselves
than ever before in the history of this
human exist existence so once human
intellect begins to spark like this
unless something is logically correct
and scientifically
verifiable it will fail in future you
may be willing to listen to a few things
but your children are not going to
listen to anything that does not make
sense to them it does not matter from
what Authority it comes from or in other
words we are moving into a era
where author it cannot be the truth
truth will be the only Authority in
future we are getting there because
everybody is beginning to ask questions
and people are not afraid to ask
questions anymore so this is bound to
happen once this
happens human aspiration for well-being
has to have a logically correct and
scientifically ass sustainable
methodology and it's IM of tremendous
importance that today the international
yoga day has been declared in the last
one year it was moted by the Prime
Minister but it was almost like the
world was waiting for it as they
mentioned 177 countries never before in
the history of United Nations all of
them agreed upon one thing as they
agreed upon yoga it looked like they
were waiting for it yes the world has
been waiting for a scientific and a
logically correct solution for human
well-being the aspiration for human
well-being will not
stop unless we provide a proper
scientifically structured methodology
then people in terms of well-being will
move towards chemicals this is a deep a
grave concern in the world the number of
people moving towards alcohol and drugs
in the last 25 years must be maybe 500
to 1,000% more than what it was 25 years
ago this is mainly because in pursuit of
human well-being there are no logically
correct answers to their questions that
is the reason why human beings are
seeking these kind of solutions unless
we provide this this is a natural
progression I see in the next 30 Years
to 50 years there will be a big movement
towards a scientific process for inner
well-being and this is the right time to
be here at this uh
forum and this yoga becoming a worldwide
thing we must understand yoga is not an
Indian thing if you want to call yoga
Indian then you must call gravity
European
okay because yes it uh it originated
from that place because India is one
place place where for a few Millennia we
had uninterrupted time to look deep
inwards and to look at the human
mechanism in atmost profoundness as to
how this functions what is the ultimate
possibility within this human mechanism
this has taken a few Millennia to
understand and arrive at this
possibility and yoga I want this message
to go the science of yoga is not just
about health it's not just about Fitness
it is an ultimate solution for every
aspect of human existence there is
different types of yogas Yoga can be
thought in different dimensions the
ultimate possibility of raising beyond
our physical nature the ultimate
possibility of knowing life in its
fullest way the word yoga means Union
the word Yogi means one who has
experienced this union we need not one
two five yogis we need millions of them
who have a sense of Union with the rest
of the universe particularly those who
hold responsible positions in the world
they must come to this experience
because leadership essentially means you
have the privilege of touching other
people's
lives what you think what you feel and
what you do every single thought emotion
and action either makes or breaks
people's lives that's what leadership
means when you are given such a
privilege it's very very important that
you are in a state of yoga that you
experience life around you as yourself
if we if any of us feel the work that
we're doing is important the first and
foremost thing is we must work upon
ourselves it gives me deep honor and
pleasure to First give the floor to
under Secretary General Ambassador vij
nambar who will also be delivering a
message on behalf of the Secretary
General Mr bankim Moon I shall just be
delivering the message of the uh
Secretary General uh on tomorrow's
International Day of
yoga yoga is an ancient physical mental
and spiritual practice that originated
in India and is now practiced in various
forms around the world the word yoga
derives from Sanskrit and means to join
to or to unite symbolizing the union of
body and consciousness
yoga balances Body and Soul physical
health and mental well-being it promotes
Harmony among people and between
ourselves in the natural world
recognizing its Universal appeal the
United Nations General Assembly
proclaimed 21st June as the
International Day of yoga this year's
observance of the International Day of
yoga highlights the important role
Healthy Living plays in the realization
of the sustainable development goals
adopted last year by all 193 United
Nations member
states as exercise yoga has multiple
benefits physical inactivity is linked
with a number of non-communicable
diseases such as cancer diabetes and
cardiovascular diseases which are among
the leading causes of illness and death
worldwide by improving Fitness teaching
us how to breathe correctly and working
to diminish stress yoga can help to cult
activate healthier
Lifestyles practicing yoga can also help
raise awareness of our role as consumers
of the planet's resources and as
individuals with a duty to respect and
live in peace with our neighbors all
these elements are essential to building
a sustainable future of dignity and
opportunity for all on the International
Day of yoga tomorrow I urge everyone to
embrace healthier choices in life Styles
and to commit to Unity with our fellow
human beings regardless of ethnicity
Faith age gender identity or sexual
orientation let us celebrate this day
and every day as members of one human
family sharing one common precious home
thank
you may I now give the floor to the
permanent representative of Bangladesh
sir we ly appreciate the Indian
government's initiative to have the
International Day of yoga we have
learned a lot from the yoga Masters
especially the perspective as to how
yoga can contribute in the attainment of
Global Peace sustainable future and in
turn the realization of the sdgs what I
understand without peace of mind and
Harmony in the body how can we think uh
we can change the world first we have to
change our own world by which what I
mean is how we live breathe eat think
and Aspire if we are not fit for the
purpose of contributing to sustainable
peace in the world we will remain as
bystanders and not as active agents of
change I can share my own personal story
with my colleagues and others present
here I had been suffering from a very
bad bout of sciatica problem for the
last two months at times the pain was
debilitating I have gone through serious
pain medication followed by physical
therapy and acupuncture in fact I am
just coming here from my sixth session
of acupuncture treatment I realized that
I suffered this problem because of
accumulated lifestyle related problems
which included long hours of sitting
standing stress from the work and also
from the family for the constant change
of places of postings Etc during the
last 8 weeks of my audal I reflected on
my life and future course of action I
read a lot and searched the internet for
answers and I finally came to the
conclusion that yoga is the answer to my
situation although I did some yoga in my
college days my biggest mistake was I
that I discontinued that perhaps if I
continued I would have never faced my
present predicament
now the bujangan or Cobra position which
is also known as McKenzie something is
critical for the health of my spine
there are many other assens or positions
which can help me get my strength back
as I feel little better and able to
practice those the assens will not only
help gain my physical strength but it
will contribute to my mental strength
through the meditational aspects of yoga
I thought I will share my most recent
experience so that others like me in
similar lifestyle situations can also
learn and prevent the situation that I
am in let's do yoga every day and not
just one day in the year thank
you may I now offer the floor to the
distinguished permanent representative
of Georgia Excellency I was thinking
about asking questions but in fact um
it's not as much as asking questions but
how how what you told us Echoes In in
all of us and it really does it really
does because what we what we take from
here uh from all this wonderful
conversation that uh that we just had is
how complex things are indeed very
simple if we indeed try to um as person
who is really honored and hum led to be
here as a representative of my country
who was one of the 177 who co-sponsored
yoga International Day I'm an also uh
practitioner or rather a very bad
student to the school that I'm
attending uh that school is called yoga
in daily life which is in United States
in many parts of Eastern Europe
particularly but uh headquartered in
Rajasthan in KATU um led by visha Guru
Shri Swami maheswar anandi uh and what I
learned from my personal experience
because after all the Oneness is sharing
personal experiences also is what pangel
said that it's about uh having your mind
free of disturbances and if we indeed
attain to be free of
disturbances U we find peace with our
mind that can really
transcend and
uh somehow start this chain reaction of
peacefulness and
Oneness uh that we all long for
particularly in in this
organization U I'm glad that we have so
many colleagues by now or calling from
Bangladesh my good friend who sits next
to me is also uh Avid yoga uh
practitioner and many and it is indeed
uh probably high time what you just
mentioned when uh prime minister of
India said that we needed International
Day of yoga it came indeed on a right
right time and I'm glad that I was here
on the right moment and right time thank
you uh for your presence here thank you
for your blessing and indeed if we try
to I think we can really attain that
we are without disturbance and we find
this Oneness and unity and we take those
17 goals one by one and I really hope to
and I'm looking forward to that day when
we will no longer have this beautiful
poster behind you because we will have
that completed because sdgs in a way to
me is somehow a manifestation of our
common failure too that we have to talk
about about sdgs but it's good that we
are starting to talk about it and we are
making it happen hopefully and I believe
in that yoga will create that Oneness
that will permeate our work in this
organization in this chamber and other
with thank you very much Om
Shanti may I now offer the floor to the
distinguished permanent represent dative
of lonstein Excellency you have the
floor I came from the probably most
nonsp ual angle possible to yoga I was
essentially dragged against my will 17
years ago by a then girlfriend into yoga
class and you know I viewed myself as
this uh big soccer player and cyclist
and all these other things and thought
really this is not for me and um to my
credit I had to say already after the
class well there is something there and
that is something that is worth
exploring I've been doing yoga ever
since and if there's one thing that I
believe I will be doing until the end of
my life it is Yoga because every
everyone can do it uh every person of
every age of every uh state of health
really yoga is for everyone which is I
think one of his wonderful qualities um
the other thing is even if you come from
that non-spiritual place that I came
from you realize over time that
something happens with you and that
there is in a there is for me today
no other way uh of connecting with
myself with my mind with my body the way
I can in yoga uh sometimes I find out in
when I do yoga that I before I did it I
didn't know how I was that day at the
moment I do it I I I do I feel how I am
and I'm able to connect to myself and
that's also I think really the
precondition for being able to connect
uh to connect uh with others um I
you know in looking at the theme and in
thinking about this for for me the
connection is is is very simple uh the
SG
agenda you know tells us we know what
the problems are we know what the
solutions
are we have to Simply change our ways to
get there and then we can do this
together and I think this is where yoga
can make a huge
contribution um if you think it's not
for you one
time and I think it will be for many of
you actually I think it is for everybody
and one of my you know small moments of
happiness in life today is to take a
person to yoga because that just makes
you happy um and this is why I'm
offering a class tomorrow morning to
some of your per to some of you uh in
the room and you're going to come say it
with many others and I really look
forward to that thank you so
much uh for now I have the honor to
recognize another yoga Master we have
with us uh in fact yoga mat Kao aava has
joined us for this event all the way
from
Japan distinguished guests your
excellencies ladies and
gentlemen spiritually I come from a
tradition and lineage that from the time
of Memorial have kept and shared with
Humanity the teachings of yoga yoga is a
science that especially with Med
meditation facilitates the harmony of
the body the emotions and the mind when
these elements are in harmony the
individual becomes calm and peaceful in
his heart if the individual is calm and
peaceful in his heart this permeates in
the community and thus in the world I
can attest from my own experience that
by learning these practices it is
possible for everyone to awaken your own
energies and Achieve peace love and
harmony I deeply believe that if that if
we as individuals feel peace and Harmony
in ourselves that this will lead to love
and peace being spread throughout the
world I thank you very much for enabling
me to be present
today thank you yoga mat for that
message of Love uh may I now offer the
floor to the distinguished permanent
representative of Nepal I come from
Nepal from the Eastern Hills of Nepal uh
a place in an environment which is
extremely conducive for yoga and I also
come from a family and Community
practicing yoga but then I'm always
worried about uh this question of
accessibility it has to do with the
commercialization of yoga
today the commercialization and and
hundreds and thousands of different
types of Yoga uh getting into the heads
of young minds and and different ages of
people uh mostly also in terms uh of
fashion in the forms of
fashion uh what would be your wise
guidance to us to deal with the perhaps
unnecessary a over
commercialization of
yoga whatever becomes uh reasonably
popular there will be Enterprise around
that you shouldn't be surprised when you
step out on the Time Square people will
be selling yoga t-shirts and yoga
whatever whatever
okay we shouldn't be distracted or
disturbed by these things this is a part
of a social thing it
happens at the same time the core of
yoga is not Disturbed in any way on the
surface there are small distortions here
and there I would say for the larger
public to to start with like this year
when you know about 4 months ago when I
came to know that over 9,000 children
below 18 years of age committed suicide
in India and over 1700 below 13 years of
age committed
suicide it uh I just thought uh if our
children start committing suicide we're
doing something fundamentally wrong a
child is a fresh life a child is an
exuberant life
a sh a child should be a bundle of joy
but instead of that they're deciding to
take their own life which is deeply
disturbing this is not a statement about
the child who took his life but this is
a statement about all of us what are we
doing with our
socities so off the C I said let's touch
10,000 schools but today with the
cooperation of various state governments
we are touching nearly 30,000 schools
over 20 million children what why I'm
saying this why this has become possible
is because we are offering what is
called as UPA
yoga UPA yoga means pre yoga or sub yoga
why this effort towards UPA yoga is if
you offer yoga however innocuous the
practice may look to start with it has a
spiritual Dimension to it transmitting
spiritual Dimension to an unconscious
population who are not ready for it and
without a certain level of expertise in
the teachers could be responsible over a
period of time so we teaching Opa yoga
which has mainly physiological and
psychological benefits and here you
can't do anything wrong it's on the
video all the teacher has to do is make
Corrections and make sure people are not
doing it wrong I think it's a good way
to spread yoga in the world is through
Opa Yoga upay Yoga the word up yog in
Indian languages today has acquired the
meaning of being useful but originates
from this that it's a pre yoga or sub
yoga or a startup startup yoga it is and
it's best to start that way with large
populations because when you start off
an unconscious spiritual process for
people many of them may not be ready for
it even if it's a good thing even if
good thing happens to you when you're
not ready for it things may not work
very well so UPA yoga is a a very
distinct way and a safe way to take yoga
to the world large scale after this
happens once they feel the benefits once
they experience what difference it makes
they will naturally seek yoga in a more
uh serious Manner and that is when yoga
should come into their lives this could
solve the concern that you expressed but
at the same time somebody is doing
something funny in the name of yoga it
doesn't concern me because those things
will always happen but it's good that
even even commercial establishments are
talking yoga this means it's really
on I will now call upon uh Mr Herman
Bravo who is the president of the yoga
club right here at the UN Mr Bravo you
have the floor yoga is more than an
instrument of personal transformation
yoga has as many of the speakers have
mentioned particularly sad Guru a social
Dimension all that because the word yoga
as th remember us yoga means Union Union
between the body and the mind Union
between us and other human beings Union
between human beings and nature and it
is because of that interdependence and
that
interconnection that we are able to
solve many of the problems we have many
problems but we have to be optimistic
because the solution is by changing
ourselves many of these strategies
organized by the UN they have a
political meaning they have a techn the
access to Technologies and they have the
will at the political level but all that
is not going to work unless we go at the
individual level yoga means personal
transformation and because of that the
International Day of yoga should be a
wonderful opportunity to remind all of
us that every day in our life should be
a yoga day
Namaste thank you I now give the floor
to miss NAA minab who is the executive
director of The Office of the World
Health Organization here at the United
Nations uh Miss MDA you have the floor
it's a great pleasure and an honor to
attend this celebration today and indeed
this is a very unusual event for the
United Nations because it is deeply
reflective and it's not composed of a
pre uh prepared speeches that people
deliver in a more formal way it actually
moves all of us here to think deeply of
what is being said what is being done
what is being conveyed by you here and
how we can individually and collectively
respond to this call of the
international yoga
day I have spent years of my life in
India before coming here in New York and
of course for me it's something very
special to be here today at this
day and it's special because I you
mentioned uh sad Guru that we cannot
call or um compare and say that yoga is
Indian but it comes from India and
indeed it is India's gift to the
humankind to all over the world and it
is very special because of that and I
could
see the impact of yoga practice on
communities in India so it makes a
different difference and this is why
this is such a great gift of
civilization the whole country in India
every quarter of it breathes essence of
yoga and it is the civilization calm of
yoga that has moved me when I was
there in my work we are dealing with
health issues it is no news now that
yoga is very good for
health but we also know now that uh
health is no longer
Standalone one of the sustainable
development goals it is actually
determinant for any other goal to to be
achieved therefore yoga has a very
different meaning and different indeed
interconnecting nature because it does
help people to feel better live better
breathe better act better unite better
come into interconnectedness which is
indeed essential for sustaining our
planet and connects planet to people so
therefore of course we know today proven
through many clinical trials that yoga
helps in many conditions mental health
conditions um depression heart
conditions many other conditions joint
and and and so on so this is not new but
there has been traditional resistance to
integrate yoga practice and other
perhaps traditional medicine practices
which are of course available worldwide
but known also in India to integrate
them to the allopathic U medicine and
this resistance is slowly being overcome
we as who are trying to put our um our
support into this
process uh recently this year in May in
fact India has signed an I would say
landmark agreement with the World Health
Organization to promote traditional
medicine yoga included and to ensure
quality and safety of these traditional
practices but more so to integrate this
practices into our health services
Primary Health Care and all other
services that we know so it is now
deeply understood that as all of human
beings need some or another kind of
Health Services be it vaccination if if
they are very healthy or any other more
serious uh Services they also need to
practice yoga because it prevents many
illnesses it also gives peace of mind it
teaches us how to cope with all those
different things that Modern Life uh
stress puts on human uh brain and
therefore we to stand forward and we
want to support promotion and inclusion
of yoga into um Medical Practice all
over the world we will collaborate with
India on that but my question to to you
would be is there any good secret Beyond
of what you have said how we can bring
these different dimensions of Health
together integrate them in a better way
and make sure that yoga is no longer
seen as something separate from uh from
what we do in Health Services
traditionally thank you thank you very
much for being here
today when uh our commitment has to
shift to health not to a particular
system people are married to a
particular system most of the time and
they defend that system at any cost no
matter what every system in the world
has something to contribute but instead
of being committed to health we are
committed to those systems because of
this there has been a lot of dislocation
in how health can come about so in
Southern India in the the rural part of
uh Tamil Nadu we brought this
about these five
dimensions alapathi
sidha ayurveda yunani and yoga together
practice along with the naturopathy way
of doing things it has done miraculous
things to the populations we were the
first pilot project by the aush uh
project when it started 10 years ago now
aush has become a Ministry I think
yesterday or in the last week they've
declared aish University which means
ayura yoga sidha and all these things
put together this we started almost 15
years ago and today it is an active part
what we have done is we have medical
Vans which go with a an allopathic
doctor and a Sida doctor plus we have
created
over uh
112 or
133 uh Village Gardens where we grow
herbs over 100 100 and odd different
types of herbs in a common piece of land
where people are taught how to make use
of it for small things like stomach ache
headache fever for the children diarrhea
these kind of things all our
grandmothers knew how to treat this
unfortunately even for these people are
going to the doctors today and the way
it is being treated with elaborate
medication generally in rural India
the cost of the medicine if you fall
sick for 15 days it takes a year for you
to recover with the economics of the
family gets hit for almost a year if 15
days somebody's down and they visit the
doctor and the volume of medication and
treatment that happens kind of
economically sets them back quite a bit
so we have our commitment is to health
not to a particular system and right now
the government of India is doing serious
efforts to integrate this thing and
we've been doing this for over 15 years
very effectively I must tell you a
simple thing in rural India which can be
I was just last one week I was in Africa
even there I thought this is something
that will work we created what is called
as a wave of Health about simple things
how health can be created with within
the family for every family one of the
things that was done I won't go into all
the details one simple thing with it was
every home should have a papaya tree a
banana tree a murungu tree and a patch
of
greens this transformed Health situation
in such a big way you won't believe such
a small initiative such a simple
initiative what a difference it has done
to people's lives like this small
initiative can be brought because
considering the economics of those
families it's very important we need to
come up with solutions that works for
them in this yoga practice has a
significant role
because creating a vibrant uh healthy
vibrant and eff effervescent population
is very very important to fulfill the
sustainable goals if we don't create
that kind of population we will be only
talking about sustainability it will not
happen we need to create this and the
goal is the tools of self-
transformation should not be in the
hands of a guru or an organization or
some other authority the idea is to
bring this into everybody's life like
today everybody owns a toothbrush which
has created oral health just like that
everybody should have some tools for
self- transformation it is with this
kind of uh commitment that we are going
ahead and there is a big support now in
the world wherever we go in the remotest
parts of Africa that I was there in the
last one week it was incredible to see
that all of them know about yoga I know
this 25 years ago when I went into rural
India in a big way uh they knew what is
Coca-Cola but they did not know what is
yoga but today in the remotest part of
Africa people know what is yoga this is
transformation in many
ways thank you s guruji and would you
like to reflect on this
question like to thank you
all there's been so much Beauty in this
room and so much intelligence that that
of what the world is all about and what
we are all about and what we're going to
do about it and I think that it's so
absolutely fantastic to sit here and
listen to all of the things that I've
pondered for so many years and wondered
about not always finding the answers but
today was a revelation and a very
special thing to happen to the whole
world in this room you've started
something that we've needed for a long
time it's out in the open Now yoga is
beautiful but yoga is only beautiful if
we use it and we make it part of our
Lives I want to thank you
all I now give the floor to uh Mr Rajiv
Lala who has joined us all the way from
Texas
if you could help us understand the role
of a guru of a teacher not in the true
academic sense where a stem professor
teaches me science and technology but
rather um coming from humanity and that
you that that Union among all of us when
you say sguru uh you're saying an
uneducated Guru that's what it means
because you don't go come to sguru to
know about the scriptures you don't come
to sguru to know about
rituals because the only thing that I
know is I know this piece of life from
its origin to its ultimate and this all
I know by knowing this by inference you
know just about everything because
everything is made the same way today
there is something called as a
constructional theory where they're
talking about how the atom and the
cosmos are essentially fundamentally
same design only the sophistication and
complexity is multiplying so theba and
you and me are made the same way only
the complexity has multiplied having
said that in what way is a a guru
relevant
means you trying to walk an Uncharted
terrain every year I Trek in the
Himalayas in Nepal and
Tibet once you go into the mountains
that illiterate Sherpa who is there who
has not been to school but if he says
right you turn right if he says left you
turn left you better do that otherwise
you won't come
back you do that because he knows the
terrain the same goes for this this is
just an inner terrain it's best to walk
with somebody who's already walked the
path otherwise simple things will become
complicated what what is next door you
will go around the world and come back
to it all this complication about for
example today if you utter the word
meditation people think something very
difficult to
do to put it simply first of all the
word meditation English word meditation
does not describe anything in
particular if you sit with your eyes
closed they're saying you're meditating
with your eyes closed you can do japa
tapa dhana samadi there are any number
of things you could do or you might have
just mastered the art of sleeping in
vertical
postures it
happens so when we say meditation we
must understand it's not an act it is a
quality it is like you want flowers in
your garden if you want flowers in your
garden you don't have to sit there and
do flower
meditation you don't have to think
flowers you have to think soil manure
water sunlight
have nothing to do with flowers but if
you do those things flowers will happen
because it's a consequence right now
because we have gotten into this madness
of being a goal oriented Society we are
interested in the flower we are not
interested in the plant this is the
fundamental that the yoga will change
within you you understand that you have
to handle the process right for a
consequence to happen so in yoga there
is a saying that if you're goal oriented
it your one eye will be on the goal that
means you will find your way only with
one eye which is an inefficient way of
doing things if you use both your eyes
to find your way it's much more
efficient so why is a guru needed it can
be done without it I'm asking you a
simple question even to learn a BC the
alphabet you needed a teacher but you
could have learned it by yourself maybe
you would have taken a lifetime But the
teacher T it to you in a month or two
that's a big difference so like somebody
was talking to me and uh they asked what
is this Guru about I said this is the
GPS a living GPS a guru positioning
system you
know if you want to find your way it's
best in Uncharted terrain unknown
terrain it's best to walk with somebody
who's already done the terrain once or
many times otherwise simple things will
become very
complex and it's my pleasure to
recognize Miss Denise cotro who is the
chair of the international yoga Day
committee at the United Nations and an
executive board member of the United
Nations staff Recreation Council
Enlightenment Society Denise you have
the floor the International Day of yoga
committee at the UN came into existence
last year in the summer after the first
International Day of yoga
s and Moy years ago his vision was to
have peace meditations with the staff
and he started the yoga club which
German is the president of how do you
see the UN system meaning the
secretarial staff who work here the
diplomats from the different
countries business and the NOS Civil
Society who try to implement the SGS how
do you see yoga bringing us all together
thank you so much
[Applause]
this is being said again and again about
peace so we need to look at
this when we say peace or mental peace
as people are talking about it today
even so-called spiritual leaders are
talking about peace being the highest
goal in one's life but I would like to
ask you please look at your life and see
if you want to enjoy your dinner tonight
even if you're not ecstatic at least you
must be peaceful to enjoy your dinner if
you want to enjoy the people around you
at least you must be peaceful and happy
if you want to enjoy a walk on the
street you must be peaceful and happy
otherwise this not possible so what is
very fundamental to a fundamental
requirement in our life unfortunately we
pushing it as an ultimate goal of our
life to be peaceful is not the highest
thing it is the most basic requirement
if a human being cannot even be peaceful
there is really nothing that they can do
this means that you're not even able to
harness your body and mind the way you
should to look at it from one
perspective all human experience has a
chemical basis to it what you call as
peace is a certain kind of chemistry
what you call as Joy is another kind of
chemistry blissfulness another ecstasy
another Agony Another Kind anxiety fear
stress tension whatever you call it
every human experience has a chemical
basis to it we have not been thought
about how to deal with this when I say
how to deal with this as is as a
technology if you want to look at this
as a machine this is the most
sophisticated piece of technology on the
planet the question is to deal with this
high level of Technology have you read
even the users manual that's a question
yoga means it is the US users manual of
how to conduct this one I would say when
you ask this question how to bring all
these diverse people together in this
organization it's best to start with the
simplest process which does not even
need a specific allotment of time this
is where OA yoga will become useful
people can sit in their work spaces and
right there they can do it 3 minutes
anytime they feel like it it does not
need a specific condition it does not
need a specific time if they see the
benefit which they definitely will in a
matter of two weeks time they will see a
distinct benefit doing it wherever they
are it does not need any kind of
specific discipline or time or other
conditions required for normal the
proper yoga to be done I think this
would be a good way to integrate them
because this predates all religion this
is not about you versus me this is why I
said this is not Indian
because a science cannot be Indian yes
it originated from India as Indians we
are proud of it but it does not belong
to India the very fact that United
Nations has declared an international
yoga Day
means India has gifted it to the world
it does not belong to India anymore
we it's it's not something that we have
to possess and identify
with the significant aspect of my
personal work has been to remove all the
Frills of culture that yoga had acquired
through this Millennia of transmission
slowly whatever you do in a particular
culture it will acquire cultural Frills
so one thing is to take off all the
cultural Thrills and present it as an
absolute science and a technology for
well-being this is an important thing in
an organization like this where there
are people from every nation there are
people from every kind of denominations
every kind of Faith every kind of
beliefs every kind of ideologies it's
very very important that yoga is brought
as a proper science not as a cultural
thing not as an Indian thing it's very
important to do that
[Applause]
[Music]